All right, so in this particular
video, let's see how we can
solve this session problem using
something known as JSON web tokens.
So that number one, I don't have to
make an API call or a query call
to the database and I don't
overwhelm the database with every
request and how I can increase my
speed.
So let's search for something
known as JSON web token.
Okay, so what is this?
JSON web tokens.
So this is the jwt, also
known as JSON web tokens.
The idea behind JSON web tokens is
what if I could create a random
string, let's say something like,
you know, a random string and actual
information about the user, such as
name, such as all the details about
the user can be encrypted inside the
token.
I mean the token itself contains
the information.
So that is the idea behind the jwt.
So you can see that if this is
a token, this token actually
contains this information.
Sub name id.
For example, I can even add,
let's say email, right?
I can add email as P.
So you can see that this particular
token contains this particular data.
So that means instead of returning
a session id, I can return a,
token, an encoded token
which contains the all
the information inside the token.
So that is the basic
idea behind the token.
So I don't have to make an API call
to the database to get the data.
Okay, now these tokens are
actually signed tokens.
That means our server can
basically create a token.
Everyone can read what is
the data inside the token,
but no one can change it.
Because to change the token
you need a secret.
Because if anyone can change this
token, that's a very risky thing.
You generate a token for me,
I can update my user ID to point
to your user ID and I can
do something on your behalf.
So these tokens are absolutely safe.
Anyone can read these tokens,
but no one can tamper or change
these tokens until and unless
you have the secret key.
So as a developer you should always
keep the secret key very secure.
So what we are going to do is
we are going to create
a JWTSecret, which is something
like, you know, Superman.
So ideally it should be very long
and something not guessable.
Now what we have to do is we have
to say pnpm install JSON web token.
Okay, so this is the whole
name JSON web token.
Nice.
Now see what we can do is let's try
to refactor this
particular code to use tokens.
Okay?
Number one thing, how do you login
now that's the thing that when
you log in, technically you don't
want to create a session, right?
We are not going to create
a session, so a session
creation is not required.
Rather, what we should do is
we should basically create
a token for the user.
How to create a token?
First let's create a payload
that what all information I
want to store in the token.
So I am going to store an ID
that is existing user.id
and I want to store email.
Let's say existing user.email and I
want to store the name of the user
that is existing user email.
Now to create a token token,
I can just say import.
Okay, import JWT
from JSON web tokens.
So this is what we have imported.
And then you can just say jwt.sign.
okay, you are signing a token
for this particular payload and then
you have to give the secret key that
is process.en sorry process.env.
what is the secret?
Inside this is the secret JWT secret.
This creates a token for you.
Jwt.sign this thing.
And this token can now be
returned to the user back.
So now let me show you what
this token looks like.
Okay, so what we are keeping
in the token is id, email and name.
Let's go back to the postman.
So let me just spin up my postman.
Okay, so here is the postman.
And let's try to do a login.
And send.
Okay, I forgot to run the server,
so PNPM dev and enter.
Now let's see what is happening.
And send.
So all right, so we got an error.
Let's see what is the error here.
The.
Okay, so my bad, actually
the docker compose is not running.
So docker compose up hyphen D.
It says.
Okay, so actually, you know,
I just restarted my machine
and the docker is not running.
So that was the problem.
So let me just,
let's wait for a while.
Yeah, now I think everything is
up and running.
Now let's just do a PNPM dev.
Cool.
And send.
So can you see that?
This random string, this is a token.
Now if you have noticed, we are not
storing this token in the database.
There is absolutely no need to store
these tokens in the database because
if I paste my token here, See,
See, this is what we are getting.
By the way, name is wrong.
My bad.
Because this must be named.
Yeah, so you can see
that this is the token.
Now you might be thinking that, hey,
someone can come and change this
token, but actually no, because if
you change the token the signature
of the token also changes.
And to change that particular
token, you actually
need this particular key.
So of course the user will
never have this particular key.
So they cannot really
change the token.
Now what we have to do is,
okay, the login part is done.
Now, in order to see if the current
user is logged in or not.
Now there is a thing.
We don't really need this
whole thing, right?
What we need is we need to read
the token from the headers.
And as a part of standardization,
there is always
an authorization header, okay?
So as a best practice, there must be
a header that named as authorization
whose value must be bearer.
And the token goes here.
So this is the standard practice
that everyone follows.
So this is basically your token
header whose value should be bearer
space and the actual token, okay?
So that means first of all,
if there is no token, if there
is no token header, that
means user is not logged in.
Okay?
Then you have to check that if
okay, not token header
dot starts with okay, it
should start with the bearer.
Okay, because that's the standard.
Then you can just say return
response.status as a400.JSON
saying error and you can just say
authorization header
must start with bearer.
Right?
Nice.
Bearer.
Okay, if it starts with bearer,
what you can basically do is you
can basically extract the token.
What I could do is if I somehow
split this particular thing
using the bearer word, right?
Or if I split it using
the space, okay?
So I can just say token header.
Split it using the space and take
the first index that is this token.
So you got the token.
Now what you should basically
do is you should validate,
you should decode the token.
So I can just say decoded.
Okay, how to decode the token is
basically import jwt from JSON web
token and now you can just say jwt.
Verify you have to pass the token.
And also the same secret that you
have used, that is process env.
What was our key JWT secret.
Now see, if user has changed
something in the token, this
particular step is going to fail.
But if user has not changed something
in the token, the decoder will
be the actual user object, whatever
you have stored in the token.
Now technically I can just
remove all this thing, right?
Everything can be removed and this
can be equals to the decoder.
That's it.
Absolutely no database call.
You get the token header, which
basically looks something like this.
No token that means
user is not logged in.
If it doesn't start with bearer,
you return a bad request error,
you get the token from the header,
you Decode it, you verify it, set
the request header, and that is it.
So that means now if I try
to get myself, you can see it
says you are not logged in.
Why?
Because this particular
token has to be sent in such
a way that is not this.
Like this authorization
must be bearer token and send.
See, I am logged in.
Also, can you see this
authorization tab here?
You can just say bearer token
and you can actually paste
your token here and send.
So this is actually more nice way
because Postman gives you the out
of the box support for it.
So there is absolutely no need
to set this particular header,
okay, because you already have
it bearer token as a token.
So this automatically sends a header.
Okay, so if you see the hidden,
you can see automatically
an authorization
bearer token is being sent.
Nice.
Okay, so this is how you basically
do a token based authentication.
Now see, when you are generating
tokens, you can even give more
parameters like expires in.
So you can just say expires in.
Let's say one minute.
Now this particular token is
only valid for one minute.
That means after one minute, this
token will no longer be valid.
Okay, what happens if
I change this token?
Let's say if this
was my token, right?
Let me just copy the token,
paste in the debugger.
Because see, publicly
anyone can read it.
I change it.
See, I'm changing something.
Now if I copy this token, which I
changed on the front end, of course,
without the key, and I paste it.
See?
Server crashed.
What?
What is the error?
If you read the error, it
basically says that it is not
able to verify the token.
See, JSON web token error
invalid signature.
So that means if someone tries
to tamper around with
the token, tries to change
the token, the validation fails.
So ideally what you could basically
do is in your middleware, okay?
In your middleware,
you can wrap this particular whole
thing with a try catch.
And if you are somehow in the catch,
okay, you can basically
just call the next function.
That means you are not logged in.
So now if this is a tamper
token, you are not logged in.
So that means you have to use
the Tampa token, which is generated
by the server using that secret
key and then paste in here.
See, you change something
in the token and your
signature is invalid.
See, I changed it.
Copy it.
Okay, now if I use this particular
token, you are not logged in.
Nice.
Right?
I'm not making an API call.
I'm not making a database call.
Why?
Because the actual data
sits inside the token.
That is the beauty
of JSON web tokens.
Okay, so this is how we are doing it.
And by the way, the name is
not coming here because we are
not querying the name here.
So ideally I should
also query the name.
Okay, so that's okay, you can just
update this particular stuff.
But so tokens.
The basic idea behind tokens is
that the actual information
is actually stored inside
the token itself so that you don't
make a database call always.
And because the actual data lives
inside the token, the latency is
very less because you just have
to verify the token, you are not
making an extra database call.
So database is not overwhelmed
with every call.
But there is a problem.
Once you create a token
and you give it to the user.
Now technically you don't have
any control on the token, right?
He is logged in.
You get it now because see, when
you were doing session based
authentication, if you want to log
out a user, you can just delete
his session from the database.
But now once you give a token to
a user, there is no way going back.
You get it now the token is with him.
How will you invalidate this token?
So ideally the best practice is that
you should not create long tokens.
You can just create a token
which is for one minute.
And if it is expired, you can
just regenerate a token for him.
You can just regenerate a token
for him for one, one minute.
And if you don't want, if you want
the user to be logged out, just stop
regenerating the tokens for him.
See what happens is the worst
case is that he will be still
logged in for one minute.
That's the thing.
And you might be thinking,
I can store this particular
token in the database.
You should never store
the tokens in the database.
But yes, you can maintain a database
of, you know, blacklisted
tokens, okay, where you can
store the token of the, you know,
which you want to invalidate.
But the problem is again you will end
up in the same problem.
That is you are making a lot
of database calls.
So the decision is yours, that
if you are making an application
where authentication is very
sensitive, like banking,
there you should always implement
a session based authentication.
But if you are just building a
SaaS where it's okay to log in a
user for a couple of seconds
right there, the token based
authentication is used because
it leads to less overhead on the
database.
Okay?
So it's a balance
between both of them.
So you should always create tokens
with less expiry time.
So expires in one minute.
And as soon as the token expires you
can regenerate the token for him.
So this is basically how the token
based authentication works.
So congratulations.
Now you know both of
the authentication methods, that is
Session based authentication
and GWT based authentication.
This is stateless.
This is what?
Stateless.
Why is this known as, stateless?
Because.
Because the data is stored
inside the token and session
based is basically stateful
because the actual data lives
on the server or on the db,
so that is the whole thing.